Music 158
Kevin Chau, Sam Drake
Lecture 2

Project Summary
In the end, our project goals weren't fully met, however, full functionality of our DJ program was acheived. The hardest part of the project was designing a playback system that took into account jog wheel inputs, looping, and programmable hotcueing. After all the midi controls were working, we got stuck for several days just working on getting the playback exactly how we wanted, but it was very worthwhile since now we are able to beat juggle and jump around the audiofile, a necessary compenent for interesting mixes. This ultimately took up time from creating a fully equipped 4 channel mixer, but we were able to compromise by building two very robust and capable tracks. For the most part, designing our two multiparameter effects modules, 3-band EQ, HighPass/Lowpass filter, and audio mixer (crossfaders and gains) went very well, and we were able to produce very effective live signal processing on individual tracks, which is arguably the most important part of a DJ mixer. In fact, we were also able use our mixer as a 4-output sound card with master audio on channels 1 and 2 and headphone cue on channels 3 and 4. Our biggest shortcoming in comparison with our project proposal would have to be the fact that we were unable to implement an on the fly BPM detection and transport to allow for multiple tracks to be automatically beatmatched. For now, beat matching must be done manually by the DJ, since the tempo changer and pitch shifter are only at rudimentary stages. 
In retrospect, we realize this project was much more complex and ambititious than we had expected. The reality is that there were just too many subcompents that had to be fully implemented and debugged in a real DJ program than we had time to cover for this midterm project. We hope to be able to go back and add all the features in the proposal that we missed for the final project.
Jog Wheel scratch is working fully; please ask us in class to demonstrate. 